Right-click and 'save-as' this [zipped file containing a vault set up with what you need](../assets/hist1900c-starter-vault.zip). Then extract it.

A 'vault' is just a folder with text files that have the `.md` file extension and can be opened by a variety of text editors and with Obsidian. 'File extensions' are that part of a file name after the period; sometimes these are hidden by your computer. A file extension is just a signal to your computer about the kind of program to open the file with. Thus `.docx` means, 'open this file with word', and `.ppt` means, 'open this file with powerpoint'. So `'.md'` means, 'open this file with whatever program understands text files that use markdown conventions to gently stylize the text.' A mouthful, yes.  

Put the vault (i.e., 'folder') somewhere on your machine that is sensible. _Don't_ leave it in your 'downloads' folder. Put it on your desktop or 'my documents' folder. Unzip it! Windows users - right-click on the zip and select 'extract all'. (Windows does weird stuff with zipped folders). (You *can* put it in a dropbox folder so you can use Obsidian across multiple devices; Mac users might want to put it in their icloud folder. I cannot vouch for any other such service. There are mobile apps for Obsidian, so if your vault is in iCloud, your vault would also be available to Obsidian on an iPad, for instance.)

!!! note

	...incidentally, 'folder' just means a place on your machine; folders are nested - they sit inside one another. So on my Windows machine, my 'teaching' folder can be found in this sequence or **path** of nested folders: 
	`C:\smg-machine\Documents\work\2023\teaching\`

## Setting this vault up for use

Fire up Obsidian; select 'open vault' and select the folder you just downloaded. When you open it the first time, Obsidian will ask you if you trust the author (i.e., me). Say yes. Then it will show you a settings screen showing all of the plugins that I have installed. Just hit the `x` to close that. Then read the note called `start here` and follow along through the numbered notes in the guidance folder. Also, I've made some videos, below, to help out.

## Contents of the vault

This vault has been organized with subfolders like so:

```
|-_ancillary_code_do_not_touch
|-_note_templates
	|-summary_note
	|-atom_note
	|-idea_note
|-inbox
|-source_notes
|-atomic_notes
|-media
|-guidance
|-website
	|-index
```

Inside `ancillary_code_do_not_touch` are some special templates that use a bit of javascript to handle retrieving annotations from [Hypothes.is](https://hypothes.is) and also from pdfs annotated within[Zotero](https://zotero.org) The `guidance` folder contains detailed instructions on how to use the templates, how to extract annotations, and how to 'refactor' extraced notes into smaller atomic notes. We don't just make notes, we garden as well; we prune, we graft, we entwine them.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 62.5%; height: 0;"><iframe src="https://www.loom.com/embed/f98e1bc894ae4b83b216b9d2e2195b2e" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>


## A Potential Workflow

We'll talk more in class, and we will practice this, but-

1. [[4.How To Read An Academic Article|read article]] and [[5.How to Mark Up an Academic Article|annotate]] 
	1. extract annotations if necessary
2. make a summary note explaining in your own words the major take-aways from the article; include the full bibliography for the source in this note.
3. refactor extracted annotations to make atomic notes
	1. link atomic notes to the summary note describing the original source
4. Make idea notes when ideas hit you.
5. Have a gardening phase where you revisit notes to interlink as appropriate, delete as appropriate.


...there are *many* ways you could do 1-2-3.  And after you've done at least 1, the other steps can be done pretty much as you feel so inspired.

## Two more videos of the vault in action

In the following video, I show how annotations made in the Zotero pdf reader can be imported directly into the vault.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 62.5%; height: 0;"><iframe src="https://www.loom.com/embed/01563c07b9bd4fa3aadff39ca018b399" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>

In this video, I show how annotations made in the Zotero pdf reader can be copied into the 'notes' pane *within* Zotero, and *then* copied into Obsidian. The difference in these two approaches comes down to which final output you prefer.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 62.5%; height: 0;"><iframe src="https://www.loom.com/embed/c0c612eab06c472abf7b557dfe435b77" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>
