**COPIES OF WRITTEN WORK SUBMITTED**

Always retain for yourself a copy of all essays, term papers, written assignments or take-home tests submitted in your courses.

## PLAGIARISM

The University Academic Integrity Policy defines plagiarism as “_presenting, whether intentionally or not, the ideas, expression of ideas or work of others as one’s own.”_  This includes reproducing or paraphrasing portions of someone else’s published or unpublished material, regardless of the source, and presenting these as one’s own without proper citation or reference to the original source. Examples of sources from which the ideas, expressions of ideas or works of others may be drawn from include but are not limited to: books, articles, papers, literary compositions and phrases, performance compositions, chemical compounds, artworks, laboratory reports, research results, calculations and the results of calculations, diagrams, constructions, computer reports, computer code/software, material on the internet and/or conversations.

Examples of plagiarism include, but are not limited to:

-   any submission prepared in whole or in part, by someone else;
-   using ideas or direct, verbatim quotations, paraphrased material, algorithms, formulae, scientific or mathematical concepts, or ideas without appropriate acknowledgment in any academic assignment;
-   using another’s data or research findings without appropriate acknowledgement;
-   submitting a computer program developed in whole or in part by someone else, with or without modifications, as one’s own; and
-   failing to acknowledge sources through the use of proper citations when using another’s work and/or failing to use quotations marks.

Plagiarism is a serious offence that cannot be resolved directly by the course’s instructor. The Associate Dean of the Faculty conducts a rigorous investigation, including an interview with the student, when an instructor suspects a piece of work has been plagiarized. Penalties are not trivial. They can include a final grade of “F” for the course.

## COURSE SHARING WEBSITES and COPYRIGHT

Classroom teaching and learning activities, including lectures, discussions, presentations, etc., by both instructors and students, are copy protected and remain the intellectual property of their respective author(s). All course materials, including PowerPoint presentations, outlines, and other materials, are also protected by copyright and remain the intellectual property of their respective author(s).   
   
Students registered in the course may take notes and make copies of course materials for their own educational use only. Students are not permitted to reproduce or distribute lecture notes and course materials publicly for commercial or non-commercial purposes without express written consent from the copyright holder(s).

## STATEMENT ON CLASS CONDUCT

The Carleton University Human Rights Policies and Procedures affirm that all members of the University community share a responsibility to:

·       promote equity and fairness,
·       respect and value diversity,
·       prevent discrimination and harassment, and
·       preserve the freedom of its members to carry out responsibly their scholarly work without threat of interference.

**Carleton University Equity Services states that “every member of the University community has a right to study, work and live in a safe environment free of discrimination or harassment”.** (In May of 2001 Carleton University’s Senate and Board of Governors approved the Carleton University Human Rights Policies and Procedures. The establishment of these policies and procedures was the culmination of the efforts of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Human Rights and a Human Rights Implementation Committee.)

## GRADING SYSTEM

Letter grades assigned in this course will have the following percentage equivalents:

|Grades| | | |
|---|---|---|---|
|A+ = 90-100 (12)|B = 73-76 (8)|C - = 60-62 (4)| F= 0-49 (0) – Failure: no academic credit|
|A = 85-89 (11)|B - = 70-72 (7)|D+ = 57-59 (3)|  |
|A - = 80-84 (10)|C+ = 67-69 (6)|D = 53-56 (2)| |
|B+ = 77-79 (9)|C = 63-66 (5)|D - = 50-52 (1)| |

The following additional final course grades may be assigned by instructors:

**DEF**  Official deferral of final exam (see "Petitions to Defer")

**GNA** Grade not available. This is used when there is an allegation of an academic offence. The notation is replaced with the appropriate grade for the course as soon as it is available.

**IP**  In Progress – a notation (IP) assigned to a course by a faculty member when: At the undergraduate level, an undergraduate thesis or course has not been completed by the end of the period of registration.

**WDN** Withdrawn. No academic credit, no impact on the CGPA. WDN is a permanent notation that appears on the official transcript for students who withdraw after the full fee adjustment date in each term (noted in the Academic Year section of the Calendar each term). Students may withdraw on or before the last day of classes.

Standing in a course is determined by the course instructor subject to the approval of the Faculty Dean. This means that grades submitted by the instructor may be subject to revision. No grades are final until they have been approved by the Dean.

## WITHDRAWAL WITHOUT ACADEMIC PENALTY

September 30, 2022: Last day for a full fee adjustment when withdrawing from full **fall** and **fall/winter (full year)** courses (financial withdrawal). Withdrawals after this date will create no financial change to fall term fees and will result in a permanent notation of WDN appearing on your official transcript.

November 15, 2022: Last day for academic withdrawal from full **fall** courses.

March 15, 2023: Last day for academic withdrawal from **fall/winter (full year)** courses.

## COVID PANDEMIC INFORMATION

It is important to remember that COVID is still present in Ottawa. The situation can change at any time and the risks of new variants and outbreaks are very real. There are [a number of actions you can take](https://carleton.ca/covid19/health-and-safety/reducing-your-risks/) to lower your risk and the risk you pose to those around you including being vaccinated, wearing a mask, staying home when you’re sick, washing your hands and maintaining proper respiratory and cough etiquette.

**Feeling sick?** Remaining vigilant and not attending work or school when sick or with symptoms is critically important. If you feel ill or exhibit COVID-19 symptoms do not come to class or campus. If you feel ill or exhibit symptoms while on campus or in class, please leave campus immediately. In all situations, you must follow Carleton’s [symptom reporting protocols](https://carleton.ca/covid19/covid-19-symptom-reporting/). BUT PLEASE NOTE [[1.course policies#^66c5ed|my approach]]

**Masks:** Carleton has paused the [COVID-19 Mask Policy](https://carleton.ca/covid19/policies-and-protocols/mask-policy/), but continues to strongly recommend masking when indoors, particularly if physical distancing cannot be maintained. It may become necessary to quickly reinstate the mask requirement if pandemic circumstances were to change.

**Vaccines:** Further, while proof of vaccination is no longer required as of May 1 to attend campus or in-person activity, it may become necessary for the University to bring back proof of vaccination requirements on short notice if the situation and public health advice changes. Students are strongly encouraged to get a full course of vaccination, including booster doses as soon as they are eligible, and submit their booster dose information in [cuScreen](http://carleton.ca/covid19/cuscreen) as soon as possible. Please note that Carleton cannot guarantee that it will be able to offer virtual or hybrid learning options for those who are unable to attend the campus.

All members of the Carleton community are required to follow requirements and guidelines regarding health and safety which may change from time to time. For the most recent information about Carleton’s COVID-19 response and health and safety requirements please see the [University’s COVID-19 website](https://carleton.ca/covid19/) and review the [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)](https://carleton.ca/covid19/faq/). Should you have additional questions after reviewing, please contact [covidinfo@carleton.ca](mailto:covidinfo@carleton.ca).

## ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATION

You may need special arrangements to meet your academic obligations during the term. For an accommodation request the processes are as follows:

### Pregnancy obligation
Please write to me with any requests for academic accommodation during the first two weeks of class, or as soon as possible after the need for accommodation is known to exist. For accommodation regarding a formally-scheduled final exam, you must complete the Pregnancy Accommodation Form ([click here](https://carleton.ca/equity/accommodation/pregnancy-accommodation-form/)).

### Religious obligation:
Please write to me with any requests for academic accommodation during the first two weeks of class, or as soon as possible after the need for accommodation is known to exist. For more details [click here](https://carleton.ca/equity/accommodation/religious-observances/).

### Academic Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
The Paul Menton Centre for Students with Disabilities (PMC) provides services to students with Learning Disabilities (LD), psychiatric/mental health disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), chronic medical conditions, and impairments in mobility, hearing, and vision. If you have a disability requiring academic accommodations in this course, please contact PMC at 613-520-6608 or [pmc@carleton.ca](mailto:pmc@carleton.ca) for a formal evaluation. If you are already registered with the PMC, contact your PMC coordinator to send me your Letter of Accommodation at the beginning of the term, and no later than two weeks before the first in-class scheduled test or exam requiring accommodation (if applicable). After requesting accommodation from PMC, meet with me to ensure accommodation arrangements are made. Please consult the PMC website for the deadline to request accommodations for the formally-scheduled exam (if applicable).

### Survivors of Sexual Violence
As a community, Carleton University is committed to maintaining a positive learning, working and living environment where sexual violence will not be tolerated, and where survivors are supported through academic accommodations as per Carleton’s Sexual Violence Policy. For more information about the services available at the university and to obtain information about sexual violence and/or support, visit: [https://carleton.ca/equity/sexual-assault-support-services](https://carleton.ca/equity/sexual-assault-support-services)

### Accommodation for Student Activities
Carleton University recognizes the substantial benefits, both to the individual student and for the university, that result from a student participating in activities beyond the classroom experience. Reasonable accommodation will be provided to students who compete or perform at the national or international level. Write to me with any requests for academic accommodation during the first two weeks of class, or as soon as possible after the need for accommodation is known to exist. [https://carleton.ca/senate/wp-content/uploads/Accommodation-for-Student-Activities-1.pdf](https://carleton.ca/senate/wp-content/uploads/Accommodation-for-Student-Activities-1.pdf)

### PETITIONS TO DEFER

Students unable to write a final examination because of illness or other circumstances beyond their control or whose performance on an examination has been impaired by such circumstances may apply within five working days to the Registrar's Office for permission to write a deferred examination. The request must be fully and specifically supported by a medical certificate or other relevant documentation. Only deferral petitions submitted to the Registrar's Office will be considered.


### Application for Graduation Deadlines**

·       Spring Graduation (June): April 1

·       Fall Graduation (November): September 1

·       Winter Graduation (February): December 1